<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>About - WoPoss</title>
        <meta charset="UTF-8" />
        <meta name="description"
            content="Website of the  project A world of possibilities. Modal pathways on the extra-long period of time: the diachrony of modality in the Latin language (SNSF n° PP00P1_176778)" />
        <meta name="keywords" content="latin modality snfs woposs possibilities" />
        <meta name="author" content="Francesca Dell’Oro, Paola Marongiu, Helena Bermúdez-Sabel" />
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
        <link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>About</h1>
        <h2>Rationale</h2>
        <p>Research about the diachrony of modality has been lively since the 1980s (<a
                href="#ziegeler2016">Ziegeler 2016</a>). The investigation conducted on modal verbs
            in the Germanic languages, especially English, has shown beyond any doubt that languages
            with a good amount of available written history are fundamental in reconstructing the
            diachronic pathways of modality and support the panchronic approach adopted for less
            well-documented or less studied languages (e.g. <a href="#bybee1994"
                >Bybee--Perkins--Pagliuca 1994</a>). Nevertheless, diachronic research needs to open
            to other lexical markers (cf. e.g. <a href="#nuyts2001">Nuyts 2001</a>, <a
                href="#vanlinden2012">Van Linden 2012</a>) as well as to other possible benchmarks
            of comparison by taking advantage of well-documented languages. The main aim of this
            project is to perform the first large- scope analysis of modalisation paths on the
            extra-long period in Latin, a language whose documented history spans over more than two
            millennia and offers a wide-ranging variety of written sources.</p>
        <h2>The project</h2>
        <p>In contrast with mainstream research on lexical markers expressing modality, <em>A World
                of Possibilities</em> focuses not only on verbs (e.g. <em>possum</em> ‘have power,
            be able’) but also on adjectives (e.g. the adjectives in <em>-bilis</em>), nouns (e.g.
                <em>necessitas</em> ‘unavoidableness’) and adverbs (e.g. sentence adverbs such as
                <em>quidem</em> ‘undoubtedly’), offering a comprehensive approach to the Latin
            lexical modal system. Since the diachronic study of modality is an emerging field of
            contemporary linguistic research, the absence of monograph-length studies on the
            evolution of the Latin lexical modal system and the inadequacy of most Latin
            dictionaries in tracing the polysemy of modal forms are by no way surprising. The only
            feasible way to reconstruct modal pathways and competition mechanisms among modal forms
            in the history of Latin is therefore to adopt a corpus-based approach.Thus, to to gain a
            broad overview of the evolution of modality the main we will built a database with the
            modal annotations of a diachronic and genre diverse corpus whose tets were selected
            according to sociolinguistic criteria.</p>
        <p>The database of Latin modal lexical markers will fulfil two main functions:</p> <ul>
                <li>on the one hand, it will provide the team with data on semantic continuity
                    and/or evolution (subtypes of modality) which can be easily managed;</li>
                <li>on the other hand, it will supply the team with a description of the contexts in
                    which such markers/subtypes of modality appear.</li>
            </ul>
        <h2>The team</h2>
        <ul>
            <li>Francesca Dell’Oro</li>
            <li>Helena Bermúdez Sabel</li>
            <li>Paola Marongiu</li>
        </ul>
        <h2>References</h2>
        <ul>
            <li id="bybee1994">Bybee, J. -- Perkins, R. -- Pagliuca, W. (1994), <em>The evolution of
                    grammar: tense, aspect and modality in the languages of the world</em>, Chicago,
                University of Chicago Press.</li>
            <li id="nuyts2001">Nuyts, J. (2001), <em>Epistemic modality, language and
                    conceptualization: a cognitive–pragmatic perspective</em>, Amsterdam,
                Benjamins.</li>
            <li id="vanlinden2012">Van Linden, A. (2012), <em>Modal adjectives: English deontic and
                    evaluative constructions in synchrony and diachrony</em>, Berlin -- Boston, de
                Gruyter.</li>
            <li id="ziegeler2016">Ziegeler, D. (2016), “The diachrony of modality and mood”, in
                Nuyts, J. -- van der Auwera, J., eds, <em>The Oxford handbook of modality and
                    mood</em>, Oxford, Oxford University Press: 387-405.</li>
        </ul>
    </body>
</html>
